---
title: Setting Up Web Tracking to Personalize Content on the Site and in Campaigns
excerpt: ''
deprecated: false
hidden: false
metadata:
  title: >-
    Setting Up Web Tracking to Personalize Content on the Site and in Campaigns
    | Yespo Guide
  description: >-
    In this article, we'll guide you through the steps to implement web tracking
    effectively, helping you optimize your site and campaigns for better user
    engagement and business results.
  robots: index
next:
  description: ''
---
Web tracking is a technology that tracks user behavior on a website. It also enables to:

* Create segments;
* Work with them in different channels: Email, Web Push, Mob Push, SMS, Viber;
* Send personalized recommendations;
* Show recommendations on the website.

Web tracking collects user data and enables segmentation based on

* Viewed/added/purchased products;
* Price category;
* Device’s name, model, and browser;
* Number of purchases;
* User location, etc.

Setup takes place in 5 stages:

* Installing a web tracking script on the website.
* Uploading the product feed to the Yespo account.
* Setting up web tracking to track the actions of site visitors.
* Creating emails and workflows / setting up product recommendations on the website.
* Testing and launching.

Important

To use web tracking, sign up for one of the [Professional features](https://yespo.io/segmentation-price) according to your pricing plan.

Also, before setting up web tracking, you need to consider several nuances:

1. The script can be installed only on the site (on desktop and mobile versions). For the mobile application, web tracking is configured using SDK integration.
2. For some sites, installing the script is impossible if it conflicts with other scripts or if the platform on which it is built has limitations.
3. You can only upload a product-type feed to your Yespo account. Contact our technical support if you need to use a different type of feed (news, promotional).

## Getting and Installing the Script

The web tracking script is generated by the Yespo system directly in your account. Obtaining and installing the script takes a little time. Use [the tutorial](https://docs.yespo.io/docs/how-set-web-tracking-your-website) to complete this setup step.

## Importing Product Feed

Product feed is data about products and their attributes in a specific format. Usually, the feed contains the following information:

* Unique product ID;
* Its name;
* Product image;
* Brand name;
* Category;
* Characteristics (color, size, etc.);
* Cost and availability data;
* Link to the site page.

You can learn more about feed requirements and the process of importing it into the Yespo system [here](https://docs.yespo.io/docs/importing-product-feed).

## Setting Up Tracking

Once you've completed the steps above, you need to set up tracking on your site to collect user activity. The following integration methods are available:

1. [Transferring Website Behavior Data via JavaScript Requests](https://docs.yespo.io/docs/how-set-web-tracking-sending-events-java-scipt-request)
2. [Transferring Website Behavior Data via REST API](https://docs.yespo.io/docs/how-transfer-website-behavior-data-through-rest-api)

The main advantage of JavaScript requests is reliability. Integration via REST API leaves the possibility that tracking will stop working wholly or partially in case of site layout changes. By setting up web tracking through JavaScript requests, you can control the continuity of sending events yourself and consider it when doing any site work.

Transferring data about site visitors' behavior via the REST API is usually configured if sending events from the site's front end is impossible.

> 📘 Important
>
> You cannot use the site's recommendations functionality if tracking is configured via the REST API. If required, select the integration option via JavaScript requests.

After completing all the technical work, submit the project for verification to Yespo support specialists. At this point, you need to pay the Extra features tariff, which includes support for advanced segmentation. Payment will be frozen while the integration team completes the web tracking setup.

## Possibilities of Use

### Triggers

Personalization of the purchase process is one of the most essential tools for increasing conversions. Targeting and returning the customer to the site is possible thanks to offers based on:

* Views;
* Previous orders;
* Adding to favorites and other user actions.

Using web tracking data, you can set up auto-generation of individual message content using ready-made algorithms:

* Abandoned view;
* Abandoned cart;
* Price reduction for a viewed product;
* Price reduction for a similar product;
* Price reduction for products in the abandoned cart;
* New products;
* Products with a discount in the category of interest;
* Reactivation of inactive users;
* Any other personal algorithms.

[Product recommendations](https://docs.yespo.io/docs/how-set-product-recommendations-email) provide additional value to such emails, helping the subscriber better learn about the assortment that may interest them.

To launch deep segmentation triggers, you need to create workflows and messages. In addition to emails, you can use data obtained through web tracking in other channels. To configure dynamic content in these messages, please contact the Yespo integration team at [integration@yespo.io](mailto:integration@yespo.io).

#### Preparation of Static Email Templates

This stage is independent of the ones described above. You can create templates with product cards before and after web tracking is set up.

You can prepare the necessary templates with the help of [this article](https://docs.yespo.io/docs/designing-recommendations-email).

#### Creating Workflows

Automation of sending emails occurs with the help of [regular workflows](https://docs.yespo.io/docs/how-launch-regular-workflow-segment-support). When preparing a communication strategy, you can:

* Create a chain of several messages;
* Set the check of various conditions;
* Set the timing for sending messages;
* Test various emails, their sequence in the chain, communication time, etc.

[Detailed manuals for setting up workflows in Yespo >](https://docs.yespo.io/docs/workflow-management)

#### Testing and Launch

After creating the workflow and specifying dynamic email content, we configure and test the functionality. Depending on the complexity of the workflows and emails, testing can take up to 3 days.

### Product Recommendations on Website

Individual product selections significantly reduce the user's time spent searching for the right product among the online store's assortment and stimulate additional purchases. A site visitor who is unsure of the choice will be more willing to look at products from the *Similar products* section than ordinary promotional offers. Those who have already decided may be interested in the *Buy with this product* recommendations. For eCommerce, product recommendations have long become an effective way to increase sales.

To implement product recommendations on your site, use [this guide](https://docs.yespo.io/docs/recommendations-overview). The main thing you need to do is decide on the type of recommendations you want and set up:

* Recommendation block placement pages;
* Data sources for forming product selections;
* Location of the recommendation block on the page and the cards' appearance.

Then, artificial intelligence algorithms will do everything for you. All you have to do is test to determine the best title, look, and placement of recommendations to increase sales.
